doc/source/install.rst, before:

==================
Installation Guide
==================

Where to get nmrglue
--------------------

Install files for all platforms are available for `download 
<https://github.com/jjhelmus/nmrglue/releases>`_.
The .tar.gz file should be used on Linux and OS X and a binary, .exe file for 
Windows.

Requirements
------------


nmrglue dependes on the following open-source packages for scientific computing
in the Python ecosystem.

+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Package    | Version    | Details                               |
+============+============+=======================================+
| Python     | 2.7.9+     | Version 3 and above are recommended   |
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Numpy      | 1.21+      | Required for all basic data types     |
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Scipy      | 0.16+      | Required for processing functions     |
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Matplotlib | 2.2.3+     | Optional, required for some functions |  
|            |            | such as interactive phase correction  |                           
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+

Additionally, an interactive environment such as `IPython <http://ipython.org/>`_, (available via several distributions such as `Jupyterlab <https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_, `Spider <https://www.spyder-ide.org/>`_, `Google Colaboratory <https://colab.research.google.com/>`_, etc.) is highly recommended. A easy way of obtaining and installing these packages is to use a Python distribution which provides these packages, such as `EPD <http://www.enthought.com/products/epd.php>`_ or `Conda <https://www.anaconda.com/>`_. Detailed information on `installing a Scipy stack <http://scipy.github.com/install.html>`_ is available. Note that although the nmrglue codebase remains compatible with Python 2.7+, Python 2, along with Numpy, Scipy and Matplotlib versions that are compatible with it, are `no longer actively maintained <https://www.python.org/doc/sunset-python-2/>`_. Hence, we recommend that Python 3 be used for all new code. 


Platform Independent Installation
---------------------------------

nmrglue is available for installation via the Python Package Index. The latest
stable version can be installed using::
    
    $ python -m pip install nmrglue

The current development version can be installed directly from GitHub using::

    $ python -m pip install git+git://github.com/jjhelmus/nmrglue

This requires `git` to be installed and available.


Unix/OSX Installation
---------------------

After installing the above dependencies download and extract the source 
distribution and run::

    $ python setup.py install

Windows Installation
--------------------

Download the binary installer and run it.

Installing from source code
---------------------------

nmrglue can also be installed from source code.  See the :ref:`source_code` 
section of the :ref:`development-guide` for details on this process.

Commit message:

- Python stack instllation now recommends only Anaconda/Miniconda - The recommended version of numpy is set to 1.16 - Windows installation now recommends Anaconda/Miniconda - Several typos corrected

doc/source/install.rst, after:

==================
Installation Guide
==================

Where to get nmrglue
--------------------

Install files for all platforms are available for `download 
<https://github.com/jjhelmus/nmrglue/releases>`_.
The .tar.gz file should be used on Linux and OS X and a binary, .exe file for 
Windows.

Requirements
------------


nmrglue depends on the following open-source packages for scientific computing
in the Python ecosystem.

+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Package    | Version    | Details                               |
+============+============+=======================================+
| Python     | 2.7.9+     | Version 3 and above are recommended   |
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Numpy      | 1.16+      | Required for all basic data types     |
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Scipy      | 0.16+      | Required for processing functions     |
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+
| Matplotlib | 2.2.3+     | Optional, required for some functions |  
|            |            | such as interactive phase correction  |                           
+------------+------------+---------------------------------------+

Additionally, an interactive environment such as `IPython <http://ipython.org/>`_, (available via several distributions such as `Jupyterlab <https://jupyterlab.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_, `Spyder <https://www.spyder-ide.org/>`_, `Google Colaboratory <https://colab.research.google.com/>`_, etc.) is highly recommended. An easy way of obtaining and installing these packages is to use a Python distribution which provides these packages, such as `Anaconda/Miniconda <https://www.anaconda.com/>`_. Detailed information on `installing a Scipy stack <https://scipy.org/install.html>`_ is available. Note that although the nmrglue codebase remains compatible with Python 2.7+, Python 2, along with Numpy, Scipy and Matplotlib versions that are compatible with it, are `no longer actively maintained <https://www.python.org/doc/sunset-python-2/>`_. Hence, we recommend that Python 3 be used for all new code. 


Platform Independent Installation
---------------------------------

nmrglue is available for installation via the Python Package Index. The latest
stable version can be installed using::
    
    $ python -m pip install nmrglue

The current development version can be installed directly from GitHub using::

    $ python -m pip install git+git://github.com/jjhelmus/nmrglue

This requires `git` to be installed and available.


Unix/OSX Installation
---------------------

After installing the above dependencies download and extract the source 
distribution and run::

    $ python setup.py install

Windows Installation
--------------------

Installation of the Scipy stack via a distribution such as `Anaconda/Miniconda`_ is recommended. nmrglue can then be installed using pip, as described above. Alternately, you can download the binary installer and run it.

Installing from source code
---------------------------

nmrglue can also be installed from source code.  See the :ref:`source_code` 
section of the :ref:`development-guide` for details on this process.
