doc/source/examples/peakpick.rst, before:

.. _peakpick:

Peak picking in multidimensional datasets
=========================================

This example shows how one can use nmrglue to pick peaks in multidimensional NMR
spectra and plot them. We first show this for 1d, 2d and 3d datasets, with examples
on how to annotate the peaks directly in the spectrum. We use the same data that was used in the `integration` examples. This data is available for 
`download. <http://nmrglue.googlecode.com/files/example_integrate_1d.zip>`_


Background
-----------

NMRglue provides a single function (`ng.peakpick.pick`) that can pick peaks in multidimensional
NMR datasets. Currently, 4 algorithms are implemented (`thres`, `fast-thres`, `downward`, `connected`)
that can be passed as an argument to `algorithm` in the function call. Here we will see how we can 
use this function for detecting peaks in 1d, 2d and 3d datasets. The code below reads in a previously processed data, picks peaks above a given
threshold, and plots the spectrum with all the peaks marked. A unit conversion object is
used to do the conversions from points to ppm.

[:download:`source code <../../../examples/peak_picking/1d_picking.py>`]

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/peak_picking/1d_picking.py

Results:

[:download:`figure <../../../examples/peak_picking/peak_picking_1d.png>`]

.. image:: ../../../examples/peak_picking/peak_picking_1d.png

Commit message:

example for 2D peak picking added
(cherry picked from commit ba740562698ed2cb988d334325f53e740a0b4e59)

doc/source/examples/peakpick.rst, after:

.. _peakpick:

Peak picking in multidimensional datasets
=========================================

NMRglue provides a single function (`ng.peakpick.pick`) that can pick peaks in multidimensional
NMR datasets. Currently, 4 algorithms are implemented (`thres`, `fast-thres`, `downward`, `connected`)
that can be passed as an argument to the keyword `algorithm` in the function call.  

The code below reads previously processed datasets, picks peaks above a given
threshold, and plots the spectrum with all the peaks marked. A unit conversion
object is used to do the conversions from points to ppm.

[:download:`source code <../../../examples/peak_picking/1d_picking.py>`]

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/peak_picking/1d_picking.py

[:download:`figure <../../../examples/peak_picking/peak_picking_1d.png>`]

.. image:: ../../../examples/peak_picking/peak_picking_1d.png


The function call for picking peaks spectra with dimensions > 1 is identical.
Only the way you plot the spectrum and add peak annotations is different. A
simple example is shown below

[:download:`source code <../../../examples/peak_picking/2d_picking.py>`]

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/peak_picking/2d_picking.py

[:download:`figure <../../../examples/peak_picking/peak_picking_2d.png>`]

.. image:: ../../../examples/peak_picking/peak_picking_2d.png
